### Chunk 1
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC GAS HABSHAN GAS COMPRESSOR PLANT (HGCP) PKG 2 ADDENDUM TO DGS 1310 012 REV 1 DESIGN GENERAL SPECIFICATION BALL VALVES DOCUMENT No.: ADD-50092-HC-838-13-47-002 Rev.: A Page: 8 of 17 DISCIPLINE: 13 DOCUMENT TYPE: ADDENDUM CLASS: 1 QA Quality Assurance QC Quality Control Ra Roughness average RT Radiography Test RPTFE Reinforced Poly Tetra Fluoro Ethylene RF Raised Face SCH Schedule SI SI Metric Units SPIR Spare Parts Interchangeability Report SS Stainless Steel SW Socket Weld TBE Threaded Both Ends THK Thickness THRD Threaded End(NPT) TSO Tight Shut off UT Ultrasonic Testing WPS Welding Procedure Specification 4. REFERENCE DOCUMENTS 4.1 Company Specification Sr. No. Doc. No. Rev no. Document Description 1. DGS 00 001 2 Basic Engineering Design Data 2. DGS 0000 001 2 Positive Alloy Material Identification of Equipment & Piping'}
---

### Chunk 2
Content:
{'Keyword': 'UL', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC GAS HABSHAN GAS COMPRESSOR PLANT (HGCP) PKG 2 ADDENDUM TO DGS 1310 012 REV 1 DESIGN GENERAL SPECIFICATION BALL VALVES DOCUMENT No.: ADD-50092-HC-838-13-47-002 Rev.: A Page: 16 of 17 DISCIPLINE: 13 DOCUMENT TYPE: ADDENDUM CLASS: 1 6.5. Amendments to Section 5.0 – SPECIFICATION DEVIATION / CONCESSION CONTROL Replace MANUFACTURER With VENDOR 6.6. Amendments to Section 8.0 – DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE Amendments to Section 8.1 – GENERAL Replace The trunnion shall be integral with the ball. With The trunnion design shall be as per manufacturer’s standard. Replace VENDOR shall comply with additional requirements of SHELL MESC SPEs as listed below. Any contradictions between SPE’s and requirements in this specification shall be highlighted to COMPANY for resolution. 77/110 Ball valve Amendments to ISO 17292 77/303 Valves in Special Service 77/313 Valves with Corrosion Resistant Cladding / Overlay 77/130 Ball Valves (Amendments /Supplements to API 6D) 77/200 Testing of Valves –Fire Type Testing Requirements 77/302 Valves – General Requirements 77/310 Painting and Coating of Valves 77/312 Fugitive Emission Production Testing (Amendments / Supplements to ISO 15848-2) Any contradictions between above SPE’s and requirements in this specification shall be highlighted to COMPANY for resolution With Deleted. Add below point under section 8.1, • All Valves to be used in Fire Water Service shall be UL/FM listed as specified in Valve datasheet.'}
---

### Chunk 3
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 3 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal 12.0 POSITIVE MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION (PMI) ............................................................................................ 20 13.0 DOCUMENTATION (VENDOR DATA REQUIREMENTS) ............................................................................ 20 14.0 MARKING ................................................................................................................................................. 20 15.0 PAINTING ................................................................................................................................................. 21 16.0 SPARE PARTS ........................................................................................................................................... 21 17.0 PREPARATION FOR SHIPMENT ................................................................................................................ 21 17.1 PACKAGING AND SHIPPING ..................................................................................................................... 21 17.2 PRESERVATION AND STORAGE ................................................................................................................ 22 17.3 END PROTECTION .................................................................................................................................... 22 18.0 SPECIAL TOOLS ........................................................................................................................................ 23 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 4
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 10 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal Flanged and butt weld end valves shall be as per API 6D / BS EN ISO 17292 / API 608 as per the applicable sizes and rating. In addition to the above Standard’s requirements, valves above NPS 60 shall be designed in accordance with ASME B16.34 as appropriate for the valve dimension and shall obtain COMPANY’s approval. 7.2 VALVE END CONNECTIONS Valve ends shall be flanged, welded or threaded. For socket and butt welded end valves with soft seats, factory welded pup pieces shall be provided at both ends. For Socket weld valve, minimum 100mm pup piece shall be provided. For butt welded ends, pup piece length shall be of minimum 1.5 diameter of pipe size or as advised by the VENDOR. CONTRACTOR shall indicate the exact length of pup piece in the data sheet based on the design/fabrication requirements. Threaded valves shall have female NPT pipe threads as per ASME B 1.20.1. 7.3 VALVE SEALING OPTIONS All trunnion mounted valves shall be with double block and bleed seats with inline (body cavity over-pressure) relieving capability. Sealing capability of these seats/seals shall be independent of line pressure. CONTRACTOR shall get confirmation from valve VENDOR that sealing effectiveness is independent of line pressure. For sealing, Double Isolation and Bleed (DIB with reference to API 6D) seats shall be selected only with approval from COMPANY. Sealing system shall avoid the requirements of body cavity pressure relief like PSV/TSV on valve body. Soft (resilient) seats, PTFE/RPTFE and Modified RPTFE shall be used as per the pressure/temperature rating in API608 / BS EN ISO 17292. Soft seat material not covered in API608 / BS EN ISO 17292 shall be as per Manufacturers Standards with COMPNAY approval. CONTRACTOR shall get confirmation from valve VENDOR on the suitability of soft seats at design temperature and full pressure rating of valve. For metal seated ball valves, the ball and seat sealing faces shall be coated with a hard surface material (Tungsten Carbide) and individually paired and lapped together for efficient sealing. For metal seated valves, seats/ball contact surfaces must have Tungsten Carbide coated to 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 5
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Floating', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 11 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal achieve a minimum hardness of 1050 Vickers. The thickness of the coating must be a minimum of 400 micron (thickness of finished/machined surface). Coating process shall be HVOF (High Velocity Oxygen Fuel process). 8.0 DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE 8.1 GENERAL \uf0b7 Unless otherwise specified, the design shall be in accordance with and conform to the requirements of Codes/Standards as mentioned in para 7.1. Any valve element design, entire or of a component, not covered in API 6D or BS EN ISO 17292/API 608 and not specifically addressed in this Specification and/or valve data sheet shall be approved by COMPANY prior to use in the valve design. \uf0b7 All valves shall be bi-directional and selected sealing shall be suitable for the same. If single directional valve, is required for any specific operation, shall subject to COMPANY approval. This shall be indicated on P&ID and valve name plate. \uf0b7 Valves standard design shall be reduced bore type unless otherwise mentioned in the P&ID. Full bore valve selection shall only for process engineering or safety requirements. Valves used for isolation of a pressure safety valve or thermal relief valve shall be full bore or reduced bore type based on DGS 0000-021 requirements. Bore type shall be decided based on the PSV inlet size, full bore is not mandatory. Refer clause 4.3.1 of DGS 0000 021. \uf0b7 Ball Valves shall be of full bore up to NPS 1 ½ size. \uf0b7 Only side entry designs are permitted. All welded single piece body construction is not permitted. For any other design(s) COMPANY approval is mandatory. \uf0b7 Valve design shall fulfill the requirements of ASME B16.34. \uf0b7 The ball valve shall be of Fire safe design to API 6FA, BS EN ISO 10497 and API 607. VENDOR shall submit documentary proof to this effect. \uf0b7 Valves shall be equipped with an anti-static feature/device to ensure electrical continuity between ball, stem and body of valve. \uf0b7 Trunnion mounted ball type construction shall be adopted for the sizes below. Others will be of Floating type. \uf02d Class 150(FB) Size NPS 8 and larger \uf02d Class 150(RB) Size NPS 10 and larger 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 6
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 11 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal achieve a minimum hardness of 1050 Vickers. The thickness of the coating must be a minimum of 400 micron (thickness of finished/machined surface). Coating process shall be HVOF (High Velocity Oxygen Fuel process). 8.0 DESIGN AND MANUFACTURE 8.1 GENERAL \uf0b7 Unless otherwise specified, the design shall be in accordance with and conform to the requirements of Codes/Standards as mentioned in para 7.1. Any valve element design, entire or of a component, not covered in API 6D or BS EN ISO 17292/API 608 and not specifically addressed in this Specification and/or valve data sheet shall be approved by COMPANY prior to use in the valve design. \uf0b7 All valves shall be bi-directional and selected sealing shall be suitable for the same. If single directional valve, is required for any specific operation, shall subject to COMPANY approval. This shall be indicated on P&ID and valve name plate. \uf0b7 Valves standard design shall be reduced bore type unless otherwise mentioned in the P&ID. Full bore valve selection shall only for process engineering or safety requirements. Valves used for isolation of a pressure safety valve or thermal relief valve shall be full bore or reduced bore type based on DGS 0000-021 requirements. Bore type shall be decided based on the PSV inlet size, full bore is not mandatory. Refer clause 4.3.1 of DGS 0000 021. \uf0b7 Ball Valves shall be of full bore up to NPS 1 ½ size. \uf0b7 Only side entry designs are permitted. All welded single piece body construction is not permitted. For any other design(s) COMPANY approval is mandatory. \uf0b7 Valve design shall fulfill the requirements of ASME B16.34. \uf0b7 The ball valve shall be of Fire safe design to API 6FA, BS EN ISO 10497 and API 607. VENDOR shall submit documentary proof to this effect. \uf0b7 Valves shall be equipped with an anti-static feature/device to ensure electrical continuity between ball, stem and body of valve. \uf0b7 Trunnion mounted ball type construction shall be adopted for the sizes below. Others will be of Floating type. \uf02d Class 150(FB) Size NPS 8 and larger \uf02d Class 150(RB) Size NPS 10 and larger 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 7
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 12 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal \uf02d Class 300(FB) Size NPS 6 and larger \uf02d Class 300(RB) Size NPS 8 and larger \uf02d Class 600 to 2500(FB) Size NPS 2 and larger \uf02d Class 600 to 2500(RB) Size NPS 3 and larger \uf02d Class 4500 and above All Sizes \uf0b7 All actuated (motor, pneumatically etc.) valves shall also be trunnion mounted irrespective of size or rating. \uf0b7 For trunnion mounted ball valves, use of antifriction type thrust bearings of bronze or any low strength material is not permitted. The trunnion shall be integral with the ball. \uf0b7 Ball valves shall be supplied with solid balls, casting or forgings. Balls shall be centrifugally cast. Cast balls shall undergo radio graphic examination. The ball port shall be cylindrical. Eccentric ball design is acceptable. \uf0b7 All welded end stainless steel body valves shall have low carbon content stainless steel body material. \uf0b7 All new valves shall be of long pattern type. Replacement valves in existing facilities shall be of same length as replaced valve. \uf0b7 Stem strength shall be adequate for the valve in service to include higher torque requirements due to the dirty services. \uf0b7 The stem shall be blowout-proof. Stem retention by means of a packing gland is not acceptable. Valves shall be designed to ensure that the stem does not eject under any internal pressure condition or if the packing gland components and/or valve operator mounting components are removed. VENDOR shall demonstrate, by calculation or test, that under loads resulting from design pressure and any defined piping external loads, distortion of the obturator or seat does not impair the valve functionality and sealing. \uf0b7 Valves shall be designed to provide in line automatic body cavity pressure relief system in accordance with API 6D. VENDOR shall submit details of the system with the bid. CONTRACTOR shall include this requirement in the data sheet. A relief hole drilled in the ball is not acceptable. \uf0b7 Valves NPS 8 and above shall be provided with secondary sealant injection for stem and seat seals. The valves in sour/toxic service shall have secondary sealant injection having grease points with heavy duty double check valves and grease nipples to be fitted with 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 8
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 20 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal 12.0 POSITIVE MATERIAL IDENTIFICATION (PMI) Positive Material Identification (PMI) shall be performed on low alloy and high alloy basic materials in accordance with DGS 0000 001 “Positive Material Identification of Equipment and Piping”. PMI is not required for any part supported by BS EN 10204 Type 3.2 certificates. For all other trim parts PMI is required. 13.0 DOCUMENTATION (VENDOR DATA REQUIREMENTS) The Material Requisition defines the documentation to be delivered by the Supplier. The final documentation shall clearly mention Supplier’s name, Project identification and Purchase Order or Material Requisition Number. The documentation listed below is the minimum expected to be provided by the Supplier: \uf0b7 VENDOR documentation / literature \uf0b7 Valve dimensions, layouts and details \uf0b7 Valve assembly drawings with key parts list \uf0b7 Two years recommended spare parts list and commissioning spare parts \uf0b7 Details of weld Assemblies (if any) \uf0b7 Special tools (if required) \uf0b7 Inspection and Test records \uf0b7 Installation, Operation and Maintenance manual \uf0b7 Material Certificates. The type certificates shall conform to BS EN 10204 and shall be as follows: \uf02d Type 3.2 - for body / bonnet, ball, and stem \uf02d Type 2.2 - for all other metallic parts in contact with fluid and for bolting material \uf02d Type 2.1 –for all other parts. 14.0 MARKING Marking of metal/soft seats and Seat types DBB/DIB shall be done on the body. Marking shall also be done on one flange rim. Marking of valve shall also conform to the requirements of the Material Requisition. As a minimum valve marking shall include: 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 9
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 21 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal \uf0b7 Identification of the body internal weld overlay material, \uf0b7 Class rating and nominal size (marked on the valve body) \uf0b7 Year of manufacture (marked on the identification plate) \uf0b7 MANUFACTURER’S name or trade mark \uf0b7 Marking shall conform to MSS SP 25 \uf0b7 CONTRACTOR’S stock code stamped on a metal tag securely wired to the body and hand wheel of gear operated valves. Any hand wheel or lever packaged separately from the valve shall have a second tag with same information. \uf0b7 Body castings and forgings shall have the heat number and heat treatment batch cast in the material. \uf0b7 In case of complementary information printed on the valve, paint or ink to be used shall not contain any harmful metal, or metal salts, such as zinc, lead, sulphur or copper which could cause corrosive attack on heating. \uf0b7 One additional name plate shall be supplied loosely together with valve for insulated valves. 15.0 PAINTING All Valves shall be delivered painted as per DGS 6600 010 16.0 SPARE PARTS CONTRACTOR shall supply all spare parts for valves required for commissioning and shall recommend and quote separately spares for two years of normal operation. 17.0 PREPARATION FOR SHIPMENT 17.1 PACKAGING AND SHIPPING Preparation for shipment shall be in accordance with the DGS 6710-001 ‘Preservation and Export Packing’. VENDOR shall be solely responsible for the adequacy of the preparation for shipment provisions with respect to materials and to provide valves at the destination in “ex- works” condition when handled by commercial carriers. Preparation for shipment and packing will be subject to inspection and rejection by COMPANY’s / CONTRACTO’s inspectors. All costs occasioned by such rejection shall be to the account of the VENDOR. 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 10
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'Revision No.: 1 Dec 2019 Document ID: DGS 1310 012 Page 22 of 23 ADNOC Classification: Internal After inspection and test, valves shall be completely free of water and dry before start of preparation for shipment. Spare parts shall be completely boxed and identified by stock number and marked with COMPANY / CONTRACTOR order number, tag number and weight, both inside and outside of each individual package or container. A bill of material shall be enclosed in each package or container of parts. Valves shall be shipped with the ball in open position. Valves shipped with mounted actuators shall be packaged in a manner that will prevent damage while in transit. 17.2 PRESERVATION AND STORAGE Material shall be protected to withstand ocean transit and extended period of storage at the jobsite for a minimum period of 18 months. Equipment shall be protected to safeguard against all adverse environments, such as: humidity, moisture, rain, dust, dirt, sand, mud, salt air, salt spray, and seawater. All material shall be preserved and export packed in accordance with DGS 6710 001 “Preservation and Export Packing” taking into consideration of the following: Exposed finished and machined surfaces, including bolting, shall be given a coating of rust inhibiting compound. Internal metal surfaces shall be sprayed or coated with a suitable rust preventative prior to shipment. Openings shall be suitably tagged to indicate the rust preventative applied. All threaded parts shall be protected with grease. Machined surfaces shall be coated with a removable varnish or protected with grease. Rust preventive shall not be detrimental to welding. 17.3 END PROTECTION Butt welding ends shall have wood or plastic cap cover bolted or wired Flanged openings shall be protected with metal or wooden cover plates to prevent damage during shipment. Covers shall be a minimum of 6 mm thick for metal covers and 12 mm thick for wooden covers and shall be installed with a full-size gasket using a minimum of 4 full diameter bolts. Large diameter flanges will require enough full diameter bolts to seat the cover all around. The cover and flange shall be taped for waterproof protection 20/Nov/2020-1000483-Sales Gas Network Enhancement Project'}
---

### Chunk 11
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC Classification: Internal # 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 Motor shall have high torque design and suitable for \'Direct OnLine\' starting. Duty cycle shall be S4 for continuous throttling/ Modulating. Motor winding shall be treated to resist corrosive agents and moisture. MOV with flow path moniotring shall provided with 70% Opening SIL-2 certified limit switch hardwired to ESD system as per legned sheet. PROJECT WEST TO EAST PIPELINE (WEP) PROJECT PROJECT NO. P30312 DOCUMENT NO. 24-84-40-1615 AREA MOT FUJAIRAH PAGE NO. DOCUMENT INSTRUMENT DATASHEET - MOTOR OPERATED VALVE REV. A 3 of 7 MOVs shall be provided with "Point of control ", Refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 and Control And Safety System Philosophy Doc. No. P30312-30-99-39-1607 For details of MOV Actuators refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 Each MOV shall be provided with serial link bypass isolator. In the event of electrical failure, the valve/actuator shall ‘stay put’. Correction of electrical fault shall not restore the motor drive without an operator reset. Ball Valves size 4" or above shall be trunnion mounted. Each motor operated valve (MOV) shall be provided with a local isolation switch near the MOV and the switch shall have pad locking facility in "off\' position. Weld overlay for trims and valve critical areas shall be 3mm minimum undiluted thickness, in minimum 2 layers. Weld overlay shall be applied to valves critical areas as per AGES-SP-09-003 and AGES-SP-09-015 Bolts & nuts shall be coated with flouropolymer coating (TAKECOAT 1000, XYLAN 1070 or approved equivalent). All process fluid wetted components, including, overlays, non-metallics and elastomers, shall comply with AGES-SP-07-003 and NACE MR-0175 / ISO-15156 standards (Latest). Process tubing shall be alloy 625. Painting systems and final colors of all components shall conform to AGES-SP-07-004 – Painting & Coating Specification PMI shall comply with requirements of AGES-GL-13-002 Solid CRA material may be accepted where CRA material weld overlay for trim is specified depending on commercial aspects / economics (e.g. below a certain size). Duplex Stainless steel shall be min PREN 34 and in compliance with ISO 17718 and supplied in solution annealed and water quenched condition Valves flanged ends shall be as per ASME B16.5 for sizes up to 24”, and as per ASME B16.47 series A for sizes larger than 24”. Facing shall have smooth finish 125-250 AARH Valve actuators and master stations shall be supplied from the same supplier considering that both shall be sourced from one of the following vendors (ROTORK, AUMA, BERNARD, BIFI, LIMITORQUE INT(FLOWSERVE).'}
---

### Chunk 12
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC Classification: Internal # 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 Motor shall have high torque design and suitable for \'Direct OnLine\' starting. Duty cycle shall be S4 for continuous throttling/ Modulating. Motor winding shall be treated to resist corrosive agents and moisture. MOV with flow path moniotring shall provided with 70% Opening SIL-2 certified limit switch hardwired to ESD system as per legned sheet. PROJECT WEST TO EAST PIPELINE (WEP) PROJECT PROJECT NO. P30312 DOCUMENT NO. 25-50-40-1615 AREA IPS SWEIHAN PAGE NO. DOCUMENT INSTRUMENT DATASHEET - MOTOR OPERATED VALVE REV. A 3 of 7 MOVs shall be provided with "Point of control ", Refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 and Control And Safety System Philosophy Doc. No. P30312-30-99-39-1607 For details of MOV Actuators refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 Each MOV shall be provided with serial link bypass isolator. In the event of electrical failure, the valve/actuator shall ‘stay put’. Correction of electrical fault shall not restore the motor drive without an operator reset. Ball Valves size 4" or above shall be trunnion mounted. Each motor operated valve (MOV) shall be provided with a local isolation switch near the MOV and the switch shall have pad locking facility in "off\' position. Weld overlay for trims and valve critical areas shall be 3mm minimum undiluted thickness, in minimum 2 layers. Weld overlay shall be applied to valves critical areas as per AGES-SP-09-003 and AGES-SP-09-015 Bolts & nuts shall be coated with flouropolymer coating (TAKECOAT 1000, XYLAN 1070 or approved equivalent). All process fluid wetted components, including, overlays, non-metallics and elastomers, shall comply with AGES-SP-07-003 and NACE MR-0175 / ISO-15156 standards (Latest). Process tubing shall be alloy 625. Painting systems and final colors of all components shall conform to AGES-SP-07-004 – Painting & Coating Specification PMI shall comply with requirements of AGES-GL-13-002 Solid CRA material may be accepted where CRA material weld overlay for trim is specified depending on commercial aspects / economics (e.g. below a certain size). Duplex Stainless steel shall be min PREN 34 and in compliance with ISO 17718 and supplied in solution annealed and water quenched condition Valves flanged ends shall be as per ASME B16.5 for sizes up to 24”, and as per ASME B16.47 series A for sizes larger than 24”. Facing shall have smooth finish 125-250 AARH Valve actuators and master stations shall be supplied from the same supplier considering that both shall be sourced from one of the following vendors (ROTORK, AUMA, BERNARD, BIFI, LIMITORQUE INT(FLOWSERVE).'}
---

### Chunk 13
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC Classification: Internal # 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 Duplex Stainless steel shall be min PREN 34 and in compliance with ISO 17718 and supplied in solution annealed and water quenched condition Ball Valves size 4" or above shall be trunnion mounted. Weld overlay for trims and valve critical areas shall be 3mm minimum undiluted thickness, in minimum 2 layers. Weld overlay shall be applied to valves critical areas as per AGES-SP-09-003 and AGES-SP-09-015 Each MOV shall be provided with serial link bypass isolator. Motor shall have high torque design and suitable for \'Direct OnLine\' starting. Duty cycle shall be S4 for continuous throttling/ Modulating. Motor winding shall be treated to resist corrosive agents and moisture. MOV with flow path moniotring shall provided with 70% Opening SIL-2 certified limit switch hardwired to ESD system as per legned sheet. PROJECT WEST TO EAST PIPELINE (WEP) PROJECT PROJECT NO. P30312 DOCUMENT NO. 30-50-40-1615 AREA MPS HABSHAN PAGE NO. DOCUMENT INSTRUMENT DATASHEET - MOTOR OPERATED VALVE REV. A Painting systems and final colors of all components shall conform to AGES-SP-07-004 – Painting & Coating Specification For details of MOV Actuators refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 All process fluid wetted components, including, overlays, non-metallics and elastomers, shall comply with AGES-SP-07-003 and NACE MR- 0175 / ISO-15156 standards (Latest). Process tubing shall be alloy 625. 3 of 7 Bolts & nuts shall be coated with flouropolymer coating (TAKECOAT 1000, XYLAN 1070 or approved equivalent). PMI shall comply with requirements of AGES-GL-13-002 MOVs shall be provided with "Point of control ", Refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 and Control And Safety System Philosophy Doc. No. P30312-30-99-39-1607 In the event of electrical failure, the valve/actuator shall ‘stay put’. Correction of electrical fault shall not restore the motor drive without an operator reset. Each motor operated valve (MOV) shall be provided with a local isolation switch near the MOV and the switch shall have pad locking facility in "off\' position. Solid CRA material may be accepted where CRA material weld overlay for trim is specified depending on commercial aspects / economics (e.g. below a certain size). Valve actuators and master stations shall be supplied from the same supplier considering that both shall be sourced from one of the following vendors (ROTORK, AUMA, BERNARD, BIFI, LIMITORQUE INT(FLOWSERVE). Valves flanged ends shall be as per ASME B16.5 for sizes up to 24”, and as per ASME B16.47 series A for sizes larger than 24”. Facing shall have smooth finish 125-250 AARH'}
---

### Chunk 14
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Trunnion mounted', 'Chunk': 'ADNOC Classification: Internal # 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 Duplex Stainless steel shall be min PREN 34 and in compliance with ISO 17718 and supplied in solution annealed and water quenched condition Valves flanged ends shall be as per ASME B16.5 for sizes up to 24”, and as per ASME B16.47 series A for sizes larger than 24”. Facing shall have smooth finish 125-250 AARH Solid CRA material may be accepted where CRA material weld overlay for trim is specified depending on commercial aspects / economics (e.g. below a certain size). MOVs shall be provided with "Point of control ", Refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 and Control And Safety System Philosophy Doc. No. P30312-30-99-39-1607 In the event of electrical failure, the valve/actuator shall ‘stay put’. Correction of electrical fault shall not restore the motor drive without an operator reset. Each motor operated valve (MOV) shall be provided with a local isolation switch near the MOV and the switch shall have pad locking facility in "off\' position. Weld overlay for trims and valve critical areas shall be 3mm minimum undiluted thickness, in minimum 2 layers. Weld overlay shall be applied to valves critical areas as per AGES-SP-09-003 and AGES-SP-09-015 Bolts & nuts shall be coated with flouropolymer coating (TAKECOAT 1000, XYLAN 1070 or approved equivalent). Ball Valves size 4" or above shall be trunnion mounted. Motor shall have high torque design and suitable for \'Direct OnLine\' starting. Duty cycle shall be S4 for continuous throttling/ Modulating. Motor winding shall be treated to resist corrosive agents and moisture. DOCUMENT NO. 30-78-40-1607 PROJECT WEST TO EAST PIPELINE (WEP) PROJECT PROJECT NO. P30312 AREA BVS-2 PAGE NO. 3 of 7 DOCUMENT INSTRUMENT DATASHEET - MOTOR OPERATED VALVE REV. A For details of MOV Actuators refer to specification for Actuators Serving (MOV) Doc. No. ES-30-99-39-0030 MOV with flow path moniotring shall provided with 70% Opening SIL-2 certified limit switch hardwired to ESD system as per legned sheet. Each MOV shall be provided with serial link bypass isolator. All process fluid wetted components, including, overlays, non-metallics and elastomers, shall comply with AGES-SP-07-003 and NACE MR- 0175 / ISO-15156 standards (Latest). Process tubing shall be alloy 625. Painting systems and final colors of all components shall conform to AGES-SP-07-004 – Painting & Coating Specification PMI shall comply with requirements of AGES-GL-13-002 Valve actuators and master stations shall be supplied from the same supplier considering that both shall be sourced from one of the following vendors (ROTORK, AUMA, BERNARD, BIFI, LIMITORQUE INT(FLOWSERVE).'}
---

### Chunk 15
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'MATERIAL REQUISITION FOR MOTOR OPERATED VALVES (TRIPLE OFFSET BUTTERFLY TYPE) Document No. : 30-99-93-1665 Rev. : A Project No. : P30312 Page : 10 of 59 Security Code: 5 - Public Abbreviation Description PQT Procedure Qualification Trial PSL Product Specification Level PWHT Post Weld Heat Treatment QA / QC Quality Assurance / Quality Control SOW Scope of Work SPIR Spare Parts Interchangeability Record TPIA Third Party Inspection Agency UAE United Arab Emirates UT Ultrasonic Testing VDB Vendor Data Book VDI Vendor Document Index VDRL VENDOR Document Requirement List WPS Welding Procedure Specification 2.3 Document Precedence Work on the Project shall be performed to the following Regulations, Codes and Standards, which are shown in their order of precedence below: ➢ The laws, standards and regulations of United Arab Emirates. ➢ ADNOC HSE Management Systems and Standards ADNOC Onshore Procedures, Codes and Standards. ➢ Project Specific documents, specifications, Data Sheets, Drawings. ➢ ADNOC Group Engineering Specifications (AGES) & ADNOC Onshore applicable Engineering Standard Specifications (ES). ➢ International Oil & Gas Industry Codes, Standards and Recommended practices (all where specified in above or, where none of the above is applicable, as proposed by EPCM CONTRACTOR and approved by COMPANY).'}
---

### Chunk 16
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'MATERIAL REQUISITION FOR MOTOR OPERATED VALVES (TRIPLE OFFSET BUTTERFLY TYPE) Document No. : 30-99-93-1665 Rev. : A Project No. : P30312 Page : 28 of 59 Security Code: 5 - Public DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED WITH BID VENDOR DOCUMENT NUMBERING REQUIREMENT DELIVERABLE CLASSIFICATIONS (CLASS 1, 2 and 3) * PART OF FINAL DOCUMENTATION (FINAL DOSSIER) PART OF MANUFACTURER RECORD BOOK (MRB) -AON AGES REF.: PART OF VENDOR DATA BOOK (VDB) DESCRIPTION REQUIRED BY CONTRACTOR WEEKS (ARO) x x 2 x Project Filled-in Datasheet x x 1 x Approved Deviation / Non-Conformity List x 2 x Unpacking, Preservation and Site Storage Procedure x 2 x Packing, Handling & Shipping Procedures x 2 x Preservation & Storage Procedure x 2 x Slinging / Lifting Arrangement and / or Strategies E QHSE PROCEDURES x 3 Project Specific Quality Plan and Quality Manual x x 1 x Inspection and Test Plan (ITP) x x 1 x Manufacturing Procedure Specification (MPS) x 2 x Manufacturing Procedure Qualification (MPQ) x 1 x Application Procedure Specification (APS) and Procedure x 2 x Weldability Test procedure x 2 x Heat Treatment Procedure x 2 x NDE / NDT Procedures & Schedule x 2 x PMI test as per Specification x 2 x Seat Tightness Test as per API 6D x 2 x General Functional Tests for the complete assembly (valve+ Actuator Assembly + accessories): - Stroking Time test - Partial stroke Test - Torque /Thrust Testing (Valve & Actuator) - x 2 x Hydro test procedures API 6D (Un Painted Condition) x 2 x Surface Preparation & Paint System Specification x 2 x Material Color Coding, Marking and Traceability procedure x 2 x Inspection, Testing and Acceptance Test Procedures / FAT procedure x 2 x Pre-Commissioning, Commissioning and Site Acceptance Test (SAT) Procedure x 2 x Miscellaneous Performance & Test Procedures (i.e. Punch List Procedure) F SPARE PARTS & SPECIAL TOOLS 3 x Schedule of Spares for installation, pre-commissioning & commissioning x 2 x Schedule of Spares - one year’s Operation x 2 x Schedule of Spares - Insurance & Capital'}
---

### Chunk 17
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': 'MATERIAL REQUISITION FOR MOTOR OPERATED VALVES (TRIPLE OFFSET BUTTERFLY TYPE) Document No. : 30-99-93-1665 Rev. : A Project No. : P30312 Page : 55 of 59 Security Code: 5 - Public APPENDIX 6 SPARE PARTS PROCEDURE (SPIR FORM AND GUIDELINE TO FILL SPIR FORM) 1. INTRODUCTION This procedure is intended to assist CONTRACTOR in the process of completing eSPIR for capturing details of equipment and also spare parts interchangeability record (SPIR) for use by COMPANY’s various departments. COMPANY have developed eSPIR (Electronic forms) and the system is Web enabled. Access to the system will be provided to individuals, CONTRACTORS & VENDORS by COMPANY, as needed. COMPANY will use the eSPIR for capturing equipment and spare parts details for analysis and stocking of items of EPC Projects. The Information is required on these forms for all Equipment & Spares where applicable, and system is used by COMPANY’s various user departments. 1.1 Purpose This Procedure defines the scope, requirements and responsibilities of VENDOR and CONTRACTOR to ensure successful completion of the eSPIR forms. This Procedure applies to all permanent equipment, materials used on the project irrespective of whether OPERATING SPARES are required or not. This procedure is applicable to all VENDORS (including SUB-CONTRACTORS) involved in the Project. 2. CONTRACTOR RESPONSIBILITY CONTRACTOR is given login name & password and required to define list of accepted VENDORS against the project. 1.0 INTRODUCTION 2.1 Develop a Control and Monitoring Mechanism of eSPIR procedure including planning and reporting to COMPANY. • CONTRACTOR shall submit to COMPANY the eSPIR procedure, schedule of submission of eSPIRs with the packages for which Equipment Data shall be submitted to COMPANY.'}
---

### Chunk 18
Content:
{'Keyword': 'Spare Parts', 'Chunk': "MATERIAL REQUISITION FOR MOTOR OPERATED VALVES (TRIPLE OFFSET BUTTERFLY TYPE) Document No. : 30-99-93-1665 Rev. : A Project No. : P30312 Page : 59 of 59 Security Code: 5 - Public 1 MANUFACTURER AND ADDRESS TO BE COMPLETED BY VENDOR EQUIPMENT PO No. TO BE COMPLETED BY VENDOR 2 CONSULTANT AND ADDRESS TO BE COMPLETED BY VENDOR EQUIPMENT DETAILS TO BE COMPLETED BY VENDOR 3 DESCRIPTION OF PARTS DRAWING NO ORIGINAL M ANUFACTURER AND M ANUFACTURER'S PART NO M ATERIAL SPECIFICATION UNIT PRICE REM ARKS M ESC SAVINGS PR NO 4 NO OF UNITS 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 N U M B E R O F 5 P A R T S P E R U N I T FIELD AUTHORITY NAME : NAME : NAME : NAME : NAME : TITLE : TITLE : TITLE : TITLE : TITLE : SIG : SIG. : SIG. : SIG. : SIG. : DATE : DATE : DATE : DATE : DATE : SPARE PARTS LIST and INTERCHANGEABILITY RECORD (SPIR) 1/ MESC CODING FIELD ORIGINATOR SUPPLY DIVISION PROCUREMENT (Opns) APPROVAL TO BE COM PLETED BY VENDOR TO BE COM PLETED BY VENDOR LOCATION: PROJECT TITLE: PROJECT NO: SPARES AVAILABILITY: CURRENCY: SPIR NUMBER: SPIR DATE: REVISION NO: PRICE VALIDITY: DATE SUBMITTED:"}
---
